%%____________________________________________________________________________||
\section{Changes in the methods from the previous analysis}
\label{sec:strategy}

In Run 2, we are planning to make several changes in the analysis
methods from the previous analysis \cite{CMS_AN_2013-366}.

%% motivations moved from Event selection

%new alphaT
High \alphat cuts can have a significant effect on signal acceptance, so
it is advantageous to tune the cut this way to maintain a high signal to
background ratio, while remaining QCD free. The low \HT bins are most
likely to be contaminated by QCD so the \alphat threshold is scaled up
until the bin is QCD free. The value of \mht that this approximately
corresponds to is calculated and the \alphat cut for the subsequent bins
is chosen to keep this \mht approximately constant. This ensures we
remain QCD free while maximising signal acceptance.

%HT jet bins
In Ref. \cite{CMS_AN_2013-366}, the upper edge of the maximum \HT bin
was 1075 GeV. With the increase in centre of mass energy in Run~2, the
prevalance of higher \HT events will be increased. To increase the
sensitivity of the analysis to high \HT signal events, the \HT bins can
be extended to higher values than in Run~1.

%Asym jet bin
As SUSY models with compressed spectra in general only produce soft SM
particles, they are dwarfed by background. It is possible to regain
sensitivity to these models by relying on their production in
conjunction with ISR. These sort of events typically have one high \PT
jet and other lower \PT jets. It is therefore proposed to add an extra
analysis category in which events with the second leading jet below the
lead jet are included.

%njet bin
With the increase in events available from electroweak processes in
Run~2, it now seems possible to introduce a bin per \njet category,
rather than requiring just $\njet \leq 3$ and $\njet \geq 4$. This aids
in categorising low \njet signal processes, in which an invisible
particle system is made in conjunction with ISR.

%%____________________________________________________________________________||
