\section{Characterisation of the signal and control regions}
\label{sec:yields}

The event selection criteria for the signal and control regions are
detailed in Sec.~\ref{sec:selection}. A selection of relevant data/MC
comparison plots are presented here. The distributions are shown
separetely according three \njet categories: symmetric, asymmetric,
and monojet. The distributions are intended to provide a qualitative
understanding of the simulation modelling for key variables. However,
the analysis is not sensitive due the reliance on simulation via
ratios only (\ie transfer factors) and the one-to-one mapping of
(\njet,~\nb,~\scalht) binning between the control and signal
regions. The simulated distributions are normalized to an integrated
luminosity of 1280.2~$\ifb$ (the data/MC scale factors are also shown
in all plots).

In addition to distributions, the binned yields in the \mj, \mmj, and
\gj control samples can be found in Tables~\ref{tab:yields_ewk_mu},
\ref{tab:yields_ewk_mumu}, and \ref{tab:yields_ewk_gj}, respectively,
which correspond to an integrated luminosity of 1.28 \ifb. (Projected
yields for 3\ifb are found in App.~\ref{app:yields3fb}.) Finally,
Table~\ref{tab:yields_ewk_sig} summarises the predicted and observed
yields in the signal region, which again correspond to an integrated
luminosity of 1.28 \ifb.

\clearpage
\subsection{Yields and distributions for the $\mu$ + jets control sample}

\input{tables/dataLumi/yields_mu_ewk.tex}

\clearpage
\begin{figure}
    \begin{center}
        \subfigure {\includegraphics[width=0.5\textwidth]{figures/distributions/SingleMu/alphaT_sym.pdf}} ~~
        \subfigure {\includegraphics[width=0.5\textwidth]{figures/distributions/SingleMu/ht40_sym.pdf}} \\
        \subfigure {\includegraphics[width=0.5\textwidth]{figures/distributions/SingleMu/mht40_pt_sym.pdf}} ~~
        \subfigure {\includegraphics[width=0.5\textwidth]{figures/distributions/SingleMu/jet_pt[0]_sym.pdf}} \\
        \caption{Key analysis variables for single muon control region (symmetric \njet bins)}
        \label{fig:distribution_singlemu_sym}
    \end{center}
\end{figure}

\clearpage
\begin{figure}
    \begin{center}
        \subfigure {\includegraphics[width=0.5\textwidth]{figures/distributions/SingleMu/alphaT_asym.pdf}} ~~
        \subfigure {\includegraphics[width=0.5\textwidth]{figures/distributions/SingleMu/ht40_asym.pdf}} \\
        \subfigure {\includegraphics[width=0.5\textwidth]{figures/distributions/SingleMu/mht40_pt_asym.pdf}} ~~
        \subfigure {\includegraphics[width=0.5\textwidth]{figures/distributions/SingleMu/jet_pt[0]_asym.pdf}} \\
        \caption{Key analysis variables for single muon control region (asymmetric \njet bins)}
        \label{fig:distribution_singlemu_asym}
    \end{center}
\end{figure}

\clearpage
\begin{figure}
    \begin{center}
        
        \subfigure {\includegraphics[width=0.5\textwidth]{figures/distributions/SingleMu/jet_pt[0]_eq1j.pdf}} ~~
        \subfigure {\includegraphics[width=0.5\textwidth]{figures/distributions/SingleMu/jet_eta[0]_eq1j.pdf}} \\
        \subfigure {\includegraphics[width=0.5\textwidth]{figures/distributions/SingleMu/metNoMu_pt_eq1j.pdf}} ~~
        \subfigure {\includegraphics[width=0.5\textwidth]{figures/distributions/SingleMu/muon_pt[0]_eq1j.pdf}} \\
        \caption{Key analysis variables for single muon control region (monojet bins)}
        \label{fig:distribution_singlemu_mono}
    \end{center}
\end{figure}

\clearpage
\subsection{Yields and distributions for the $\mu\mu$ + jets control sample}

\input{tables/dataLumi/yields_mumu_ewk.tex}

\clearpage
\begin{figure}
    \begin{center}
        \subfigure {\includegraphics[width=0.5\textwidth]{figures/distributions/DoubleMu/alphaT_sym.pdf}} ~~
        \subfigure {\includegraphics[width=0.5\textwidth]{figures/distributions/DoubleMu/ht40_sym.pdf}} \\
        \subfigure {\includegraphics[width=0.5\textwidth]{figures/distributions/DoubleMu/mht40_pt_sym.pdf}} ~~
        \subfigure {\includegraphics[width=0.5\textwidth]{figures/distributions/DoubleMu/jet_pt[0]_sym.pdf}} \\
        \caption{Key analysis variables for double muon control region (symmetric \njet bins)}
        \label{fig:distribution_doublemu_sym}
    \end{center}
\end{figure}

\clearpage
\begin{figure}
    \begin{center}
        \subfigure {\includegraphics[width=0.5\textwidth]{figures/distributions/DoubleMu/alphaT_asym.pdf}} ~~
        \subfigure {\includegraphics[width=0.5\textwidth]{figures/distributions/DoubleMu/ht40_asym.pdf}} \\
        \subfigure {\includegraphics[width=0.5\textwidth]{figures/distributions/DoubleMu/mht40_pt_asym.pdf}} ~~
        \subfigure {\includegraphics[width=0.5\textwidth]{figures/distributions/DoubleMu/jet_pt[0]_asym.pdf}} \\
        \caption{Key analysis variables for double muon control region (asymmetric \njet bins)}
        \label{fig:distribution_doublemu_asym}
    \end{center}
\end{figure}

\begin{figure}
    \begin{center} 
        \subfigure {\includegraphics[width=0.5\textwidth]{figures/distributions/DoubleMu/jet_pt[0]_eq1j.pdf}} ~~
        \subfigure {\includegraphics[width=0.5\textwidth]{figures/distributions/DoubleMu/jet_eta[0]_eq1j.pdf}} \\
        \subfigure {\includegraphics[width=0.5\textwidth]{figures/distributions/DoubleMu/metNoMu_pt_eq1j.pdf}} ~~
        \subfigure {\includegraphics[width=0.5\textwidth]{figures/distributions/DoubleMu/muon_pt[0]_eq1j.pdf}} \\
        \caption{Key analysis variables for double muon control region (monojet bins)}
        \label{fig:distribution_doublemu_mono}
    \end{center}
\end{figure}

\clearpage
\subsection{Yields and distributions for the photon + jets control sample}

Photon blah.

\input{tables/dataLumi/yields_gj_ewk.tex}

\clearpage
\begin{figure}
    \begin{center}
        \subfigure {\includegraphics[width=0.5\textwidth]{figures/distributions/SinglePhoton/alphaT_sym.pdf}} ~~
        \subfigure {\includegraphics[width=0.5\textwidth]{figures/distributions/SinglePhoton/ht40_sym.pdf}} \\
        \subfigure {\includegraphics[width=0.5\textwidth]{figures/distributions/SinglePhoton/mht40_pt_sym.pdf}} ~~
        \subfigure {\includegraphics[width=0.5\textwidth]{figures/distributions/SinglePhoton/jet_pt[0]_sym.pdf}} \\
        \caption{Key analysis variables for single photon control region (symmetric \njet bins)}
        \label{fig:distribution_singlephoton_sym}
    \end{center}
\end{figure}

\clearpage
\begin{figure}[h]
    \begin{center}
        \subfigure {\includegraphics[width=0.5\textwidth]{figures/distributions/SinglePhoton/alphaT_asym.pdf}} ~~
        \subfigure {\includegraphics[width=0.5\textwidth]{figures/distributions/SinglePhoton/ht40_asym.pdf}} \\
        \subfigure {\includegraphics[width=0.5\textwidth]{figures/distributions/SinglePhoton/mht40_pt_asym.pdf}} ~~
        \subfigure {\includegraphics[width=0.5\textwidth]{figures/distributions/SinglePhoton/jet_pt[0]_asym.pdf}} \\
        \caption{Key analysis variables for single photon control region (asymmetric \njet bins)}
        \label{fig:distribution_singlephoton_asym}
    \end{center}
\end{figure}

\clearpage
\begin{figure}
    \begin{center} 
        \subfigure {\includegraphics[width=0.5\textwidth]{figures/distributions/SinglePhoton/jet_pt[0]_eq1j.pdf}} ~~
        \subfigure {\includegraphics[width=0.5\textwidth]{figures/distributions/SinglePhoton/jet_eta[0]_eq1j.pdf}} \\
        \subfigure {\includegraphics[width=0.5\textwidth]{figures/distributions/SinglePhoton/gamma_pt[0]_eq1j.pdf}} ~~
        \subfigure {\includegraphics[width=0.5\textwidth]{figures/distributions/SinglePhoton/gamma_eta[0]_eq1j.pdf}} \\
        \caption{Key analysis variables for single photon control region (monojet bins)}
        \label{fig:distribution_singlephoton_mono}
    \end{center}
\end{figure}

\clearpage
\subsection{Predicted and observed yields and distributions in the signal region}

In the absence of multijet events from QCD, the remaining significant
backgrounds in the signal region are expected to stem from SM
processes with genuine \met in the final state. For the low jet
multiplicity categories, the largest backgrounds with genuine \met are
from the associated production of W or Z bosons with jets, followed by
either the weak decays \znunu\ or \wtaunu, where the $\tau$ decays
hadronically and is identified as a jet, or by leptonic decays that
are outside acceptance or not rejected by the dedicated electron or
muon vetoes. For the higher jet multiplicity categories, top quark
production followed by semileptonic weak top quark decay becomes
dominant. The relative contribution from \ttbar is depending on the
jet multiplicity with increase importance for large jet
multiplicities.

Table~\ref{tab:yields_ewk_sig} summarises the predicted and observed
yields in the signal region, which correspond to an integrated
luminosity of 1.28 \ifb. The predicted yields are based on a fit to
multiple data control samples to obtain predictions in
(\njet,~\nb,~\scalht). The observed counts in the signal region are
not considered in this fit. The uncertainties reflect all statistical
and (pre-fit) systematic sources added in quadrature. The $\ttbar$W
and \znunu\ components are also shown (the former of which contains
all residual contributions from sub-dominant processes such as \eg
diboson production). This table summarises our best knowledge of the
SM background rates in the signal region while not considering counts
in the signal region itself.

\clearpage
\input{tables/dataLumi/yields_sig_ewk.tex}
%\input{tables/dataLumi/yields_sig_tt.tex}
%\input{tables/dataLumi/yields_sig_wjetstolnuht.tex}
%\input{tables/dataLumi/yields_sig_zinv.tex}

\clearpage
\begin{figure}
    \begin{center}
        \subfigure {\includegraphics[width=0.5\textwidth]{figures/distributions/Signal/alphaT_sym.pdf}} ~~
        \subfigure {\includegraphics[width=0.5\textwidth]{figures/distributions/Signal/ht40_sym.pdf}} \\
        \subfigure {\includegraphics[width=0.5\textwidth]{figures/distributions/Signal/mht40_pt_sym.pdf}} ~~
        \subfigure {\includegraphics[width=0.5\textwidth]{figures/distributions/Signal/jet_pt[0]_sym.pdf}} \\
        \caption{Key analysis variables for hadronic signal region (symmetric \njet bins)}
        \label{fig:distribution_signal_sym}
    \end{center}
\end{figure}

\clearpage
\begin{figure}
    \begin{center}
        \subfigure {\includegraphics[width=0.5\textwidth]{figures/distributions/Signal/alphaT_asym.pdf}} ~~
        \subfigure {\includegraphics[width=0.5\textwidth]{figures/distributions/Signal/ht40_asym.pdf}} \\
        \subfigure {\includegraphics[width=0.5\textwidth]{figures/distributions/Signal/mht40_pt_asym.pdf}} ~~
        \subfigure {\includegraphics[width=0.5\textwidth]{figures/distributions/Signal/jet_pt[0]_asym.pdf}} \\
        \caption{Key analysis variables for hadronic signal region (asymmetric \njet bins)}
        \label{fig:distribution_signal_asym}
    \end{center}
\end{figure}

\clearpage
\begin{figure}
    \begin{center}
        \subfigure {\includegraphics[width=0.5\textwidth]{figures/distributions/Signal/jet_pt[0]_eq1j.pdf}} ~~
        \subfigure {\includegraphics[width=0.5\textwidth]{figures/distributions/Signal/jet_eta[0]_eq1j.pdf}} \\
        \subfigure {\includegraphics[width=0.5\textwidth]{figures/distributions/Signal/met_pt_eq1j.pdf}} ~~
        \subfigure {\includegraphics[width=0.5\textwidth]{figures/distributions/Signal/biasedDPhi20_eq1j.pdf}} \\
        \caption{Key analysis variables for hadronic signal region (monojet bins)}
        \label{fig:distribution_signal_mono}
    \end{center}
\end{figure}

