\section{Introduction}
\label{sec:introduction}

The standard model (SM) of particle physics is successful in
describing a wide range of phenomena and the model is currently being
extensively tested at high energies with collider-based experiments.
To date, no contrary evidence has yet been attained. Nevertheless, the
SM is widely believed to be only an effective approximation of a more
complete theory that supersedes it at a higher energy
scale. Supersymmetry (SUSY)~\cite{ref:SUSY-1, ref:SUSY0, ref:SUSY3,
  ref:SUSY1} is a complete, renormalisable extension to the Standard
Model (SM) that extends the space-time symmetry group underpinning the
SM. For each boson (fermion) in the SM, a fermionic (bosonic)
superpartner, which differs in spin by one-half unit, is introduced.

The proposed supersymmetric extension to the SM is compelling from
theoretical, phenomenological, and experimental considerations.  From
a theory perspective, the addition of superpartners to SM particles
can modify the running of the gauge coupling constants such that their
unification can be achieved at a high scale~~\cite{Dimopoulos:1981yj,
  Ibanez:1981yh, Marciano:1981un}.  Experimentally, SUSY is testable
through the prediction of an extensive array of new observable states
(of unknown masses)~\cite{ref:SUSY4, ref:SUSY2}. The gluinos $\sGlu$,
light- and heavy-flavour squarks $\PSQ, \PSQb, \PSQt$, and sleptons
$\PSl$ are, respectively, the superpartners to gluons, quarks, and
leptons. An extended Higgs sector is also predicted, as well as four
neutralino $\chiz_{1,2,3,4}$ and two chargino $\chipm_{1,2}$ states
that arise from the mixing between the superpartner states to neutral
and charged Higgs bosons and the electroweak gauge bosons.

A more topical perspective, given the recently discovered Higgs
boson~\cite{ref:atlashiggsdiscovery, ref:cmshiggsdiscoverylong}, is
the conjecture that the superpartners (``sparticles'') can alleviate
the gauge hierarchy problem of the SM, by compensating for radiative
corrections to the Higgs mass from loop processes involving SM
particles~\cite{ref:hierarchy1, ref:hierarchy2}. These corrections
diverge according to a power-law dependence on scale, which can only
be accommodated in the SM through an extreme level of fine tuning of
the bare Higgs mass parameter. A ``natural'' solution, with minimal
fine-tuning, requires the $\PSQt_\text{L}$, $\PSQt_\text{R}$,
$\PSQb_\text{L}$, and $\sGlu$ to be realised at or near the
electroweak scale~\cite{ref:barbierinsusy}. These ``natural''
constraints, which can be relaxed at the expense of some level of fine
tuning, imply the presence of states accessible by the CERN Large
Hadron Collider (LHC). 

Finally, the assumption of R-parity conservation~\cite{Farrar:1978xj}
has important consequences for cosmology and collider
phenomenology. SUSY particles are expected to be produced in pairs at
the LHC, with heavy states decaying to the lightest stable
supersymmetric particle (LSP). The LSP is generally assumed to be the
$\chiz_1$, which is weakly interacting and massive. This sparticle is
considered to be a Dark Matter (DM) candidate~\cite{Jungman:1995df},
the existence of which is supported by astrophysical
data~\cite{1674-1137-38-9-090001}.  Hence, the characteristic
signature of ``natural'' SUSY production at the LHC is a final state
containing an abundance of jets, possibly originating from top or
bottom quarks, accompanied by a significant transverse momentum
imbalance, \ptvecmiss.

The lack of evidence to date for SUSY has also focused the attention
on regions of the parameter space with weak coverage, which includes
``natural'' models~\cite{Delgado:2012eu, Boehm:1999tr, Carena:2008mj,
  Grober:2014aha, Grober:2015fia}. For example, models in which both
the $\PSQt$ and the $\chiz_1$ are light and nearly degenerate in mass
are phenomenologically well motivated~\cite{Boehm:1999bj,
  Balazs:2004bu, Martin:2007gf, Martin:2007hn}. This class of models,
with ``compressed'' mass spectra, typically yield SM particles with
very low momenta from the decays of sparticles. Hence, searches rely
on the associated production of jets, often resulting from
initial-state radiation (ISR), to achieve nonnegligible experimental
acceptance.

This article presents an inclusive search for new-physics phenomena in
hadronic final states with one or more energetic jets and an imbalance
in transverse momentum, performed in pp collisions at a centre-of-mass
energy $\sqrt{s} = 13\TeV$. The analysed data sample corresponds to an
integrated luminosity of $2.3 \pm 0.1 \fbinv$ %~\cite{lumi}
collected by the Compact Muon Solenoid (CMS) experiment. Previous
iterations of this search have been performed in pp collisions at both
$\sqrt{s} = 7$~\cite{RA1Paper, RA1Paper2011, RA1Paper2011FULL} and
$8\TeV$~\cite{RA1Paper2012, RA1Parked}.

The increase in the centre-of-mass energy of the LHC, from $\sqrt{s} =
8$ to 13\TeV, provides a unique opportunity to search for the
characteristic signatures of new physics at the TeV scale. For
example, the increase in $\sqrt{s}$ leads to a factor $\gtrsim$35
increase in the parton luminosity~\cite{Martin:2010db} for the pair
production of coloured supersymmetric particles, each of mass 1.5\TeV,
which were beyond the reach of searches performed at $\sqrt{s} =
8\TeV$~\cite{Aad:2015iea, CMS:2014dpa, Khachatryan:2015vra}.  Several
searches have already provided results with the first data,
interpreted within the context of SUSY, at this new energy
frontier~\cite{atlas-12, atlas-13, cms-12, cms-13}.

To ensure sensitivity to the broadest possible region of the
supersymmetric parameter space, an inclusive strategy is adopted,
which focuses on maintaining high acceptance, through the application
of selection criteria with the lowest possible thresholds, and the
categorisation of candidate signal events according to multiple
discriminating variables. 
The search is sufficiently generic and inclusive to provide
sensitivity to a wide range of nonsupersymmetric models that postulate
the existence of a stable, weakly interacting, massive particle,
assumed to be consistent with the nature of DM. In addition to the
jets + \ptvecmiss topology, the search considers final states
containing a ``monojet'' + \ptvecmiss topology, which is expected to
improve the sensitivity to DM particle production in pp
collisions~\cite{Fox:2012ee, Buchmueller:2015eea}.
%The coverage of the broad parameter space, as characterised by a
%simplified model approach that assumes \eg vector, axialvector,
%scalar, or pseudoscalar mediated interactions~\cite{Fox:2012ee,
%  Buchmueller:2015eea}, is complementary to non-collider-based
%experiments that aim to observe DM interactions either indirectly,
%through the potential signatures of DM annihilations in astrophysical
%data, or directly, through the search for nonnegligible DM-nucleon
%scattering cross sections.

This search is based on an examination of the number of reconstructed
jets per event, the number of these jets identified as originating
from bottom quarks, and the scalar and vector sums of transverse
momenta of these jets. These variables provide sensitivity to the
different production mechanisms of massive coloured sparticles at
hadron colliders (\ie squark-squark, squark-gluino, and
gluino-gluino), ``natural'' third-generation squark signatures, and
both large and small mass splittings between the parent sparticle and
the LSP.

The dominant background process for a search in all-jet final states
is multijet production, a manifestation of quantum chromodynamics
(QCD). An accurate estimate of this background is difficult to
achieve, given the lack of precise theoretical predictions for the
multijet production cross section and kinematic properties. Further,
the discovery potential of a search in the all-jets channel can be
particularly sensitive to the uncertainties in the estimation of a
nonnegligible multijet background. Hence, this search adopts a
strategy that employs several variables in an attempt to reduce the
multijet contribution to a low (percent) level with respect to other
SM backgrounds, rather than estimate with high precision a
nonnegligible contribution.

The search is built around the dimensionless kinematic variable
\alphat~\cite{Randall:2008rw, RA1Paper}, which provides powerful
discrimination against multijet production. The \alphat variable is
constructed from jet-based quantities and provides discrimination
between ``genuine'' sources of transverse momentum imbalance, from
stable, weakly interacting particles, such as neutrinos or
neutralinos, that escape the detector, and ``fake'' sources, such as
the mismeasurement of jet energies.  The \bdphi~\cite{RA1Paper}
variable exploits azimuthal angular information and also provides
strong rejection power against multijet events, including rare
energetic events in which neutrinos carry a significant fraction of
the energy of a jet, due to semileptonic decays of heavy-flavour
mesons.  These two variables, defined in
Section~\ref{sec:signal_region}, are designed to provide robust
discrimination against multijet events at the energy and luminosity
frontier, and very restrictive requirements on the \alphat and \dphi
variables are employed in this search.

The organization of this article is as
follows. Sections~\ref{sec:detector} and~\ref{sec:simulation}
describe, respectively, the CMS apparatus and the simulated event
samples. Sections~\ref{sec:event_reconstruction}
and~\ref{sec:event_selection} describe the event reconstruction and
selection criteria used to identify candidate signal events and
control region samples. Section~\ref{sec:backgrounds} provides details
on the estimation of the multijet and all other SM
backgrounds. Finally, the search results and interpretations, in terms
of simplified supersymmetric models, are described in
Sections~\ref{sec:result} and~\ref{sec:interpretations}, and
summarised in Section~\ref{sec:summary}.


