\section{Results}
\label{sec:result}

A model of the observations in all data samples, described by a
likelihood function, is used to obtain a consistent prediction of the
SM backgrounds, and to test for the presence of new-physics signals if
the signal region is included in the maximum-likelihood fit. The
observation in each bin defined by the \njet, \nb, \scalht, and \HTmiss
variables is modelled as a Poisson-distributed variable around the SM
expectation and a potential signal contribution (assumed to be zero in
the following discussion), where the SM expectation is the sum over
the estimated contributions from all background processes according to
the methods described in Section~\ref{sec:backgrounds}.

The non-multijet backgrounds, which comprise the \wlj and \ttj (``lost
lepton'') backgrounds, the residual contributions from other
processes, such as single top, diboson, and Drell-Yan production, and
the irreducible \znunuj background, are related to the expected yields
in the \mj, \mmj, and \gj control samples via the transfer factors
derived from simulation, as described in
Section~\ref{sec:control_regions}. 
%For event categories that satisfy $\nb < 2$, all three of the
%aforementioned control samples are considered in the estimation of the
%\znunuj background. For events with $\nb > 1$, only the \mj control
%sample is used to determine the total contribution from all
%non-multijet backgrounds in the signal region.  
Estimates of the contribution from multijet events in the signal
region is determined according to the method described in
Section~\ref{sec:qcd_background}, and is included in the likelihood
function.
%Estimates of the contribution from multijet events in the control and
%signal regions are determined, respectively, directly from simulation
%or according to the method described in
%Section~\ref{sec:qcd_background}, and are included in the likelihood
%function.

%The likelihood function is the product of Poisson probability density
%functions, one for each signal region, and constraint terms that
%account for uncertainties in the background predictions and signal
%yields. These uncertainties are treated as nuisance parameters with
%log-normal probability density functions. Correlations are taken into
%account where appropriate.

The systematic uncertainties summarised in Table~\ref{tab:bkgd_systs}
are accommodated in the likelihood function through the use of
nuisance parameters, the measurements of which are assumed to follow a
log-normal distribution. Alternative templates are used to describe
the uncertainties in the modelling of the \HTmiss variable. A vertical
template morphing scheme~\cite{Prosper:1306523} is used to interpolate
between the nominal and alternative \HTmiss templates. A nuisance
parameter controls the interpolation, which is gaussian distributed
with a mean of zero and a standard deviation of one, where $\pm$1
corresponds to the alternative templates for a $\pm$1$\sigma$
variation in the uncertainty. Each template is interpolated
quadratically between $\pm$1$\sigma$, and a linear extrapolation is
employed beyond these bounds.

\begin{figure}[!t]
  \begin{center}
    \includegraphics[width=0.49\textwidth]{figures/result/summaryPlot_Monojet_prefit_overlay_fit_b}
    \caption{(Top panel) Event yields observed in data (solid circles)
      and ``pre-fit'' SM expectations with their associated
      uncertainties (black histogram with shaded band), integrated
      over \HTmiss, as a function
      of \nb, and \scalht for the monojet category ($\njet = 1$) in
      the signal region. For illustration only, the expectations for
      four benchmark models (defined in the text) are superimposed on
      the SM-only expectations. (Bottom panel). The significance of
      deviations observed in data with respect to both the ``pre-fit''
      (open circles) and ``post-fit'' (closed circles) SM
      expectations, expressed in terms of the total uncertainty in the
      SM expectations.
    }
    \label{fig:mono}
  \end{center}
\end{figure}

The ``pre-fit'' result of this search, which considers the
observations in the control regions only, is summarised in
Figs.~\ref{fig:mono}, \ref{fig:asym}, and \ref{fig:sym} for,
respectively, the monojet, asymmetric, and symmetric topologies. This
result is based on an estimate of the \znunuj background using
observations in multiple control regions as described by the
likelihood function, maximised over all fit parameters. The figures
also show the significance of deviations observed in data with respect
to the ``pre-fit'' SM expectations, expressed in terms of the total
uncertainty in the SM expectations. Figures~\ref{fig:mono},
\ref{fig:asym}, and \ref{fig:sym} also summarise the pulls from the
``post-fit'' result, which is based on a maximum-likelihood fit to
observations in the signal region as well as the control regions. No
significant tension is observed between the data and SM expectations
in the signal region (and control regions), and the data are well
described by the background-only hypothesis. A saturated likelihood
model~\cite{} is used as a goodness-of-fit test to determine the
compatibility of the observed yields with the expectations from only
SM processes (\ie the background-only hypothesis). A $p$-value of 0.20
is observed for the fit over the full signal region, and $p$-values in
the range 0.04--1.00 and consistent with a uniform distribution when
considering events categorised according to \njet.
% Njet-binned p-values taken from http://www.hep.ph.ic.ac.uk/~mc3909/Log/16-04/16-04-27/pValues/pValuesnB.pdf 

\begin{figure*}[!h]
  \begin{center}
    \includegraphics[angle=90,width=0.6\textwidth]{figures/result/summaryPlot_Asymmetric_prefit_overlay_fit_b}
    \caption{(Top panel) Event yields observed in data (solid circles)
      and ``pre-fit'' SM expectations with their associated
      uncertainties (black histogram with shaded band), integrated
      over \HTmiss,  as a function
      of \njet, \nb, and \scalht for the ``asymmetric'' \njet categories
      in the signal region. For illustration only, the  
      expectations for four benchmark models (defined in the text) are
      superimposed on the SM-only expectations. (Bottom panel). The
      significance of deviations observed in data with respect to both
      the ``pre-fit'' (open circles) and ``post-fit'' (closed circles)
      SM expectations, expressed in terms of the total uncertainty in
      the SM expectations.  }
    \label{fig:asym}
  \end{center}
\end{figure*}

\begin{figure*}[!h]
  \begin{center}
    \includegraphics[angle=90,width=0.6\textwidth]{figures/result/summaryPlot_Symmetric_prefit_overlay_fit_b}
    \caption{(Top panel) Event yields observed in data (solid circles)
      and ``pre-fit'' SM expectations with their associated
      uncertainties (black histogram with shaded band), integrated
      over \HTmiss,  as a function
      of \njet, \nb, and \scalht for the ``symmetric'' \njet categories
      in the signal region. For illustration only, the  
      expectations for four benchmark models (defined in the text) are
      superimposed on the SM-only expectations. (Bottom panel). The
      significance of deviations observed in data with respect to both
      the ``pre-fit'' (open circles) and ``post-fit'' (closed circles)
      SM expectations, expressed in terms of the total uncertainty in
      the SM expectations. }
    \label{fig:sym}
  \end{center}
\end{figure*}

%\input{tables/result/v0/predewkdata_sig_comb_mono_twiki}
%\input{tables/result/v0/predewkdata_sig_comb_asym_twiki}
%\input{tables/result/v0/predewkdata_sig_comb_sym_twiki}

\begin{figure*}[tbhp]
  \begin{center}
%    \includegraphics[width=0.45\textwidth]{figures/mht_shapes/v0/postFitShape_eq0b_ge5j_600_800_prefit_T1qqqq_900_700}
    \includegraphics[width=0.49\textwidth]{figures/mht_shapes/v1/postFitShape_eq0b_ge5j_600_800_prefit_T1qqqq_900_700} 
    \includegraphics[width=0.49\textwidth]{figures/mht_shapes/v1/postFitShape_eq1b_ge5j_800_Inf_prefit_T1qqqq_1200_100} \\
  \end{center}
  \caption{Event yields observed in data (solid circles) and
    ``pre-fit'' SM expectations with their associated uncertainties
    (blue histogram with shaded band) as a function of \HTmiss for
    events in the signal region that satisfy (Left) $\njet \geq 5$,
    $\nb = 0$, $600 < \scalht < 800\GeV$ or (Right) $\njet \geq 5$,
    $\nb = 1$, $\scalht > 800\GeV$. For illustration only, the
    expectations for a benchmark model (defined in the text) are
    superimposed on the SM-only expectations. The bottom panels
    indicate the significance of deviations observed in data with
    respect to both the ``pre-fit'' SM expectations, expressed in
    terms of the total uncertainty in the SM expectations. }
    \label{fig:mht-templates} 
\end{figure*}
