\section{Summary}
\label{sec:summary}

An inclusive search for new-physics phenomena is reported, based on
data from pp collisions at $\sqrt{s} = 13\TeV$. The data are recorded
with the CMS detector and correspond to an integrated luminosity of
$2.3 \pm 0.1 \fbinv$. The final states analysed contain one or more
jets with large transverse momenta (\Pt) and a significant imbalance
in transverse momentum, as expected from the production of massive
coloured sparticles, each decaying to SM particles and the lightest
stable, weakly-interacting supersymmetric particle.

Signal candidate events are categorised according to the number of
reconstructed jets, and the number of jets identified as originating
from b quarks, and the scalar (\scalht) and vector (\HTmiss) sums of
the transverse momenta of jets.  The search employs the use of several
kinematic variables, including \alphat and \bdphi, to suppress the
background from QCD multijet production to the percent level with
respect to other non-multijet SM backgrounds, which are dominated by
vector boson and top-antitop production. The \alphat variable is also
employed in the trigger logic that is used to record the candidate
signal events, which allows the use of low thresholds for the momentum
sums, $\scalht > 200\GeV$ and $\HTmiss \gtrsim 130\GeV$. These low
thresholds, in addition to the inclusion of final states containing a
single jet, maximise the experimental acceptance to new-physics
processes, such as low-mass squark signatures, nearly mass-degenerate
SUSY models, and other new-physics phenomena, such as DM models that
postulate the direct production of stable, weakly interacting, massive
particles in pp collisions.

The sums of the standard model backgrounds are estimated from a
simultaneous binned likelihood fit to the observed yields for samples
of events categorised according to \njet, \nb, \scalht, and \HTmiss in
the signal region and in \mj, \mmj, and \gj control regions. The
observed yields in the signal are found to be in agreement with the
expected contributions from standard model processes.  The search
result is interpreted in the mass parameter space of fourteen 
simplified supersymmetric models that assume the pair production of
gluinos or squarks and a range of decay modes. The models cover
scenarios that involve the gluino-mediated or direct production or
light- or heavy-flavour squarks, spectra with intermediate sparticle
states and branching ratios, ``natural'' spectra with gluinos and
on-shell top squarks, and nearly mass-degenerate spectra.

The increase in the centre-of-mass energy of the LHC, from $\sqrt{s} =
8$ to 13\TeV, provides a significant gain in sensitivity to heavy
particle states such as gluinos. In the case of pair production of
gluinos that each decays, via an off-shell b squark, to the b quark
and the LSP, models with masses up to $\sim$1.6\TeV and $\sim$1.0\TeV
are excluded for, respectively, the gluino and LSP, which is an
improvement of, respectively, $\sim$250 and $\sim$300\GeV with respect
to Run~1. In the case of direct pair production, models with masses up
to $\sim$800\GeV and $\sim$350\GeV are excluded for, respectively, the
b squark and LSP. These mass limits are sensitive to the assumptions
on the squark flavour and the presence of intermediate states, such as
charginos.

Finally, a comprehensive study of nearly mass-degenerate models
involving top squark pair production is performed. The two decay modes
open to the top squark are considered: the loop-induced two-body decay
to the neutralino and one c quark, and the four-body decay to the
neutralino, one b quark, and an off-shell W boson. A third scenario is
considered, when the two modes are simultaneously open each with a
branching ratio of 50\%. Masses of the top squark and LSP up to,
respectively, 400\GeV and 360\GeV are excluded, depending on the decay
modes considered.

In summary, the analysis provides sensitivity across a large region of
the ``natural'' supersymmetric parameter space, as characterised by
interpretations with several simplified models. In particular, these
studies improve on existing limits for nearly mass-degenerate models
involving the production of pairs of top squarks.
