\RCS$Revision: 326816 $
\RCS$HeadURL: svn+ssh://svn.cern.ch/reps/tdr2/papers/SUS-15-005/trunk/SUS-15-005.tex $
\RCS$Id: SUS-15-005.tex 326816 2016-02-19 20:36:18Z sakuma $

\cmsNoteHeader{SUS-16-016\_aux}

\title{Additional material for SUS-16-016}

%%__________________________________________________________________||
\abstract{A search for new-physics phenomena is performed in final
states containing one or more jets and an imbalance in transverse
momentum in pp collisions at a centre-of-mass energy of 13\TeV. The
analysed data sample, recorded with the CMS detector in 2016 at the
CERN Large Hadron Collider, corresponds to an integrated luminosity of
12.9\fbinv.  Several kinematic variables are employed to strongly
suppress the dominant background, multijet production from quantum
chromodynamics, as well as discriminate effectively between other
standard model and new-physics processes. The search provides
sensitivity to a broad range of new-physics models that yield a stable
weakly interacting massive particle. The observed candidate events are
found to agree with the expected contributions from standard model
processes. The result is interpreted in the mass parameter space of
simplified supersymmetric models that assume the gluino-mediated and
direct production of pairs of third-generation squarks. The gluino
mass, and bottom and top squark masses, are excluded up to 1775, 1025,
and 875\GeV, respectively.}


\address[cern]{CERN}
\author[cern]{The CMS Collaboration}


%% \input{mydefs}
%% \input{symbols}

\newlength\cmsFigWidth
\ifthenelse{\boolean{cms@external}}{\setlength\cmsFigWidth{0.85\columnwidth}}{\setlength\cmsFigWidth{0.4\textwidth}}
\ifthenelse{\boolean{cms@external}}{\providecommand{\cmsLeft}{top\xspace}}{\providecommand{\cmsLeft}{left\xspace}}
\ifthenelse{\boolean{cms@external}}{\providecommand{\cmsRight}{bottom\xspace}}{\providecommand{\cmsRight}{right\xspace}}

\hypersetup{ 
pdfauthor={Robert Bainbridge, Freya Blekman, Shane Breeze, Oliver
Buchmueller, Stefano Casasso, Matthew Citron, Adam Elwood, Henning
Flaecher, Aran Garcia-Bellido, Christian Laner, Kin Ho Lo, Sarah Alam
Malik, Bjoern Penning, Tai Sakuma, Dominic Smith, Alex Tapper},
pdftitle={An inclusive search for new phenomena in final states with
  one or more jets and missing transverse momentum at 13 TeV with the
  AlphaT variable},
pdfsubject={CMS},
pdfkeywords={CMS, jets, missing transverse momentum, supersymmetry,
dark matter, AlphaT}
}

\maketitle



\clearpage
\begin{figure}[tbhp]
    \caption{ 
    The $\alpha_{\mathrm{T}}$ distribution in data for events satisfying the pre-selection criteria, $H_{\mathrm{T}} > 300$ GeV and $p_{T}^{\mathrm{j2}} > 100$ GeV. 
    \label{fig:alphaT} }
  \begin{center}
  \includegraphics[width=0.7\textwidth]{alphaT_aux}
  \end{center}
\end{figure}


\begin{figure}[tbhp]
    \caption{ 
    The $\Delta\phi^{*}_{\mathrm{min}}$ distribution in data for events satisfying the pre-selection criteria, $H_{\mathrm{T}} > 800$ GeV and $p_{T}^{\mathrm{j2}} > 100$ GeV. 
    \label{fig:bDPhi} }
  \begin{center}
  \includegraphics[width=0.7\textwidth]{bDPhi_aux}
  \end{center}
\end{figure}

\clearpage
\input{SMS-T1bbbb_mGluino-1000_mLSP-900_25ns_cutflow_aux.tex}
\input{SMS-T1bbbb_mGluino-1800_mLSP-1_25ns_cutflow_aux.tex}

\clearpage
\input{SMS-T1tttt_mGluino-1600_mLSP-1_25ns_cutflow_aux.tex}
\input{SMS-T1tttt_mGluino-800_mLSP-575_25ns_cutflow_aux.tex}

\clearpage
\input{SMS-T2tt_mStop-300_mLSP-200_25ns_cutflow_aux.tex}
\input{SMS-T2tt_mStop-900_mLSP-1_25ns_cutflow_aux.tex}

\clearpage
\input{SMS-T2bb_mSbottom-1000_mLSP-1_25ns_cutflow_aux.tex}
\input{SMS-T2bb_mSbottom-450_mLSP-400_25ns_cutflow_aux.tex}


